[Music]
every second 1 million tons of matter is
blasted from the Sun at a velocity of 1
million miles per hour
and it's on a collision course with
earth but don't worry this is the
opening of a new Michael Bay movie this
the journey of the polar lights the
northern and southern lights also known
as the aurora borealis and Aurora
Australis respectively occur when
high-energy particles from the Sun
collide with neutral atoms in our
atmosphere the energy emitted from this
crash produces a spectacle of light that
mankind has marveled at for centuries
but the particles journey isn't just as
simple as leaving the Sun and arriving
at earth like any cross-country road
trip there's a big detour and nobody
asks for directions let's track this
intergalactic voyage by focusing on
three main points of their journey
leaving the Sun making a pit stop in the
Earth's magnetic fields and arriving at
the atmosphere above our heads the
protons and electrons creating the
Northern Lights apart from the Sun's
corona
the corona is the outermost layer of the
sun's atmosphere and is one of the
hottest regions it's intense heat causes
the sun's hydrogen and helium atoms to
vibrate and shake off protons and
electrons as if they were stripping off
layers on a hot sunny day impatient and
finally behind the wheel these free
protons and electrons move too fast to
be contained by the Sun's gravity and
grouped together as plasma an
electrically charged gas they travel
away from the Sun as a constant Gale of
plasma known as the solar wind
however the earth prevents the solar
wind from travelling straight into the
planet by setting up a detour the
magnetosphere the magnetosphere is
formed by the Earth's magnetic currents
and shields our planet from the solar
winds by sending out the particles
around the earth their opportunity to
continue the journey down to the
atmosphere comes when the magnetosphere
is overwhelmed by a new wave of
travelers this event is coronal mass
ejection and it occurs when the Sun
shoots out a massive ball of plasma into
the solar wind when one of these coronal
mass ejections collides with earth it
overpowers the magnetosphere and creates
a magnetic storm the heavy storm
stresses the magnetosphere until it
suddenly snaps back like an over
stretched elastic band flinging some of
the detoured particles towards Earth the
retracting band of the magnetic field
lags them down to the Aurora ovals which
are the locations of the northern and
southern lights after traveling 93
million miles across the galaxy the
sun's particles finally produce their
dazzling light show with the help of
some friends 22 two hundred miles above
the surface the electrons and protons
meet up with oxygen and nitrogen atoms
and they sure are happy to see each
other the sun's particles high-five the
atoms giving their energy to the earths
and neutral oxygen and nitrogen atoms
when the atoms in the atmosphere are
contacted by the particles they get
excited and emit photons photons are
small bursts of energy in the form of
light the colors that appear in the sky
depend on the wavelength of the atoms
photon excited oxygen atoms are
responsible for the green and red colors
whereas excited nitrogen atoms produce
blue and deep red hues the collection of
these interactions is what creates the
northern and southern lights
the polar lights are best seen on clear
nights in regions close to magnetic
north and south poles nighttime is ideal
because the aurora is much dimmer than
sunlight and cannot be seen in daytime
remember to look up at the sky and read
up on the sun's energy patterns
specifically sunspots and solar flares
as these will be good guides for
predicting the Aurora's
you
[Music]